haemorrhoids

Internal haemorrhoids


Internal Hemorrhoids 
Inside of our rectal region, we have a delicate lining of mucous membrane. Underneath this lining is our hemorrhoids. 

These veins will sometimes become inflamed, although it is impossible for us to know because we don’t have pain-sensing nerves in this area. 

The only indication of internal hemorrhoids is the painless bleeding you might have after a bowel movement. 

Don’t be alarmed if you see bright red blood coating your stool, or blood after wiping or in the toilet bowl. 

There is a high chance that the reason your hemorrhoids are inflamed is that you are not getting enough fiber, which means your stools are hard and difficult to pass. 

These hardened stools sometimes scrape the interior lining of the rectum, and just like any scrape, this produces blood.

Prolapsed haemorrhoids
Prolapsed hemorrhoids are a result of an internal hemorrhoid falling through the anal opening. 

While they can be gently pushed back inside of the anal opening, these prolapsed hemorrhoids can collect small amounts of bacteria from stools and mucus that can worsen anal itching. 

Anal itching, known formally as pruritus ani, is a known symptom of hemorrhoids. Attempting to relieve anal itching tends to make things much worse, such as further inducing bleeding from this sensitive area. 

Try to resist the urge to relieve the itch yourself, and instead, use wipes with ingredients like witch hazel, which have long been tested and researched to relieve itching.

External Haemorrhoids
This alternative type of hemorrhoid is the more painful of the two. 

External hemorrhoids form underneath the surface of the skin around the anus.  The skin erodes, leaving you feeling uncomfortable in just about any position, sitting or standing. 

Fortunately, external hemorrhoids go away on their own after a few days, and sometimes even sooner than this if treatment is applied. 

When external hemorrhoids exist, so does the possibility of thrombosed hemorrhoids. 

Thrombosed hemorrhoid

A thrombosed hemorrhoid is when a blood clot forms inside of an external hemorrhoid.  A thrombosed hemorrhoid can be especially painful. 

If you have a thrombosed hemorrhoid, it can be tempting to want to remove the blood clot by attempting to pop it, however, by doing this you would be making it much worse and possibly attracting an infection.

Like other forms of hemorrhoids, thrombosed hemorrhoids can go away on their own. 

If you are concerned about a blood clot that hasn’t gone away in a few days, consult your doctor. 

Your doctor can lance and drain a thrombosed hemorrhoid if needed and can prevent and monitor for any infections.

